Paas orgs/spaces, onboarding, tooling (#46)
DFE-Digital/technical-guidance: guides/govuk-paas.md

* [Pricing](https://www.cloud.service.gov.uk/pricing)
* [Cloud Foundry](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/)

## Organisations and spaces
To separate users, applications, services and ultimately costs, paas provides [organisations and spaces](https://docs.cloud.service.gov.uk/orgs_spaces_users.html#managing-organisations-spaces-and-users).

![Organisations and spaces](/assets/images/orgs_and_spaces.png)
### Organisations
We create a paas organisation per DfE organisational unit, such as Teacher services, National Retraining Scheme, etc. Therefore each organisational unit may only pay for what they use.

> As GDS manage a long list of orgs, organisations are namespaced by department, for example: dfe-teacher-services and dfe-national-retraining-scheme.

Reviewer: Replace dfe-national-retraining-scheme with a more recent example, National Retraining Scheme has been stopped. So dfe-childrens-social-care is one I think.

Reviewer 2: Yep, agree with Himal that dfe-childrens-social-care can be used as an example...

The Cloud Foundry provider for Terraform allows describing the deployment in a declarative way. It is the recommended way for robust deployments and continuous delivery pipelines.

#### Why

* The declarative syntax avoids having to think about dependencies. Terraform will create the resources in the right order and destroy them in the right order when required. It also makes it idempotent so terraform won’t recreate a resource already created.
* This is particularly useful to create disposable environments for testing or review apps, and delete them when they are not required anymore.
* The syntax is elegant, powerful and modular
* It can read data from environment variables, AWS parameter store, Azure keyvault, yaml files, json files, etc.
* It can create an environment made of very different technologies. For example, we create an environment with Azure, PaaS and Statuscake in a single Terraform run.

#### Caution

* Terraform requires to store its state in a persistent storage. An IaaS solution may be used alongside PaaS, like an Azure Storage Account or AWS S3 bucket. Paas also provides an [Amazon S3 service](https://docs.cloud.service.gov.uk/deploying_services/s3/).

> * All the resources are under Terraform control, including databases. Make sure you protect against accidental deletion.

Reviewer 3: Is there a recommended way to do this in GOVUK PaaS? Azure had a way of protecting resources from deletion that had to be enabled/disabled outside of ARM templates, for example. If there is a way to do this, it might be worth having a pointer to guidance for how to use it.

#### Cloud Foundry provider
The Cloud Foundry community maintains the [Cloud Foundry Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cloudfoundry-community/cloudfoundry/latest/docs).

It can be easily downloaded and installed on Terraform 0.13 and above with:
```hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    cloudfoundry = {
      source = "cloudfoundry-community/cloudfoundry"
      version = "~> 0.12"
    }
  }
}
```

#### Zero downtime

By default when an application is pushed to PaaS, the live version is deleted, the new version is built, then the new version becomes live. This can create a few minutes downtime.

To avoid this issue, the provider offers an elegant [blue-green](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cloudfoundry-community/cloudfoundry/latest/docs/resources/app#application-deployment-strategy-blue-green-deploy) deployment strategy. It builds the new version alongside the live one, and it switches traffic to it smoothly when it’s up and running.

### Docker

> The default option to deploy an application to paas is using buildpacks. They are preconfigured environments for a variety of programming languages. The developer pushes their code using cf pushand Cloud Foundry will build it remotely using the relevant buildpack. This is **not** the DfE recommended way to deploy to paas, except for very simple applications like static websites.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The default option to deploy an application to paas is using buildpacks. They are preconfigured environments for a variety of programming languages. The developer pushes their code using "cf push" and Cloud Foundry will build it remotely using the relevant buildpack. This is **not** the DfE recommended way to deploy to paas, except for very simple applications like static websites.
```
